 below
Q.What was the original purpose of British in India?
A. Trading (correct)  B. Acquire territory (correct) C. Rebelling D. Symbolically important


Q. Who granted the East India Company with a charter that allowed them sole right to trade in the east? 
A. Queen Elizabeth I (correct) 
B. Vasco da Gama 
C. Dutch Traders


Q. East India Company gained an immense profit from trade due to ___________ ? (choose two correct answers)
A. fortification (correct)
B. collusion with local rulers  
C. bribery of Mughal


Q. What is the meaning of 'puppet' in given context?  (multiple answers)
A. Toy      (correct)
B. Flower  
C. Powder   
D. Person   (correct)


Q. According to the text, what were the consequences of Robert Clive's victory in Battle of Plassey? 
A. (a) He was promised power and money (correct)
B. His ambitions for India were viewed


Q: What did the company officials become after acquiring more power and authority? 
A. rulers (correct)  B. tradesmen C. nabobs (correct) D. criminals


Q. What is the earliest age Robert Clive had arrived in India? 
A. 16 (correct)    B. 19     C. 23   D. 27  


Q. According to the summary, why was Tipu Sultan a threat to the British Company? 
A) His military might (correct)    B) His economic interests (correct)    C) Regal splendour   D)


Q. Who became known as the Tiger of Mysore? 
A. Haidar Ali (correct)   B. Tipu Sultan (correct)  C. The Nizam of Hyderabad  D. A French


Q. Who were the two famous Maratha soldiers and statesmen of the late eighteenth century? 
A. Holkar, Gaikwad (correct) 
B. Mahadji Sindhia, Peshwa (correct
.

Q. What feelings would a Nawab's nephew have when he finds out that the British will not allow him to inherit the crown due to their Doctrine of Lapse? 
A. Disgruntlement (correct)	B


Abstractive summary: Britain expanded their territorial power in India and the political map of India today is different from the maps in figures A, B and C. (correct) 
 
MCQ: In which maps can we identify parts


Q. Under the administrative reforms introduced by Warren Hastings, which of the following was established? 
A. Faujdari Adalat (correct) 
B. Governor General 
C. Diwani Adal
.

Q: The title of the Digest of Hindu laws compiled by eleven Pandits was 
A. English Code (correct)  
B. Universal Code 
C. Brahaman Dharamshastra 
D


Q. What changes affected the life of sepoys and their identity during the East India Company rule? 
A. Trade (correct)
B. Discipline (correct) 
C. Technology 
D. Revolution


Q. What attracted european trading companies to India? (correct) 
A. Profit        (Correct)
B. Taxes         
C. Resources    
D. Armies


Q. What led to the East India Company's assumption of Diwani? 
A. Trade (correct) B. Administration C. Subsidiary Alliance D. Rulers (correct)


MCQ: What did the East India Company become after Robert Clive accepted the diwani of Bengal, Bihar and Orissa from the Mughal ruler?
(correct) Diwan  (correct) Chief Financial Administrator   Revenue Collector
.

Q) How did the company address their need to pacify those who had ruled the countryside? 
A) Revenue (correct), Trade (correct)  Agrarianism, Famine

Question: What was the major consequence of permanent settlement(correct) implemented by Charles Cornwallis?
Options: 
A. Increased revenue (correct) 
B. Improved Agriculture 
C. High Rent Payments 
D. Ab


Q. What systems were devised in the early nineteenth century by British officials to collect revenue from farmers? 
A. Mahalwari settlement (correct)  B.Ryotwar (correct) C. Zemindary D


Q. According to the passage, which of the following crops was widely produced in colonial India? (correct) 
A. Jute  B. Opium (correct) C. Wheat D. Figs


Q. What two plants were mostly used to produce blue dye in the 19th century? 
A. Indigo (correct), Woad (correct) 
B. Cotton, Tea  
C. Sugar, Tobacco 
D


Q. What led to the collapse of indigo plantations in the caribbean islands? 
A) Ryoti (correct) 
B) Domingue 
C) Indigo  
D) Slave Revolt (correct
.

Q. Which mode of cultivation was used to cultivate indigo in India before British rule? 
A. Nij (correct) B. Satta C. Ryoti (correct) D. Drill


Q. Which of the following processes were necessary for producing Indigo dye? 
(A) Fermenting (correct) 
(B) Steeping 
(C) Paddling (correct) 
(D)
 in answer

Q: What gave the indigo peasants the power to rebel? 
A) Zamindars (correct)  B) Government C) Money D) Songs (correct)
 below

Q. On what condition will ryots grow indigo?  
A. Voluntarily (correct)  B. Coercively C. For profit (correct) D. Out of necessity


Q. The demand for indigo increased in late eighteenth century Britain because of __________ a) Mahalwari system (correct) b) Permanent Settlement c) Growers of woad d) Synthetic Dyes (correct).


MCQ: What were the circumstances which led to the eventual collapse of indigo production in Bengal? 
Options: 
A. The Munro System (correct) 
B. Champaran Movement  
C. Ryots


Q. Who were the people following Birsa? 
A. Mundas (correct)   B. Santhals (correct)   C. Oraons   D. Brahmans
 in output

Q. According to the given passage, which of these is/are true about tribal people in India? 
A) Jhum cultivation (correct) 
B) Ploughing land and sowing seeds 
C


Q. What type of people were the Baigas?
A. Labourers (correct)  B. Moneylenders C. Traders D. Shepherds (correct)


Q. According to Verrier Elwin, what do Baiga men and women typically do in the first year of their subsistence activities? 
A. Cut trees (correct) 
B. Go for hunts (correct) 



Q. What did the British officials view on tribal groups? 
A. Hunter-Gatherers (correct) B. Civilised C. Wild and Savage (correct) D. Shifting Cultivators


Q. What was introduced by the British in order to generate revenue and control people? 
A. Land Settlements (correct)   B. Hunting  C. Peasant Cultivators  D. Shifting Cultivation (correct
.

Q: Who had the authority to decide small patches of land in forests for jhum cultivators? 
A) Patwari (correct) 
B) Kotwar 
C) Government (correct) 
D


Q. What caused the revolt of Songram Sangma and Forest Satyagraha? 
A. Money lenders (correct)  B. Trading (correct) C. Wages D. Exports

question: What percentage of miners in jharia and raniganj coal mines of bihar were tribals in the 1890s?
A. 30% (correct)
B. 18% 
C. 8% 
D
.

Q. What did Birsa Munda dream of achieving? 
A. Reformation of Tribal Society (correct)  
B. Attaining the Kingdom of Heaven  
C. Victories against Oppressors (correct)


Q. What did Tribals do to protest against the colonial rule? 
A. Attack Police Stations (correct)     B. Destroy Ravana    C. Establish a Kingdom   D. Sow Seeds in Jhum (
 without question
Question: Choose the correct answers from the following options (2 correct): 
A. Cocoons (correct) 
B. Jhum cultivators (correct) 
C. Witches and sorcery  
D. Tribal chiefs